.. _credit_scoring_pakdd:

===================================
2009 Pacific-Asia PAKDD competition
===================================

This is a copy of the PAKDD dataset.
https://pakdd.org/archive/pakdd2009/front/show/competition.html


Description:

Credit Risk Assessment on a Private Label Credit Card Application

The offer of credit for potential clients is a very important service for stimulating consumption in the market.
Despite being among the oldest application domains for data mining
(from the times when not even the name "data mining" existed),
there are some difficulties related to credit scoring which are often overlooked by modelers, namely.

In general, there are only data about the company's clients for modeling,
but not about the rejected applicants.
These represent a sample of the potential clients (market)
that is strongly biased given that a systematic procedure focused on the problem target (payment default)
has been applied for selection.

Also, the data has been collected from a time interval in the past
for developing a model to be applied in a future time.
Not considering any drastic change in the economy,
gradual market changes occur and reduce the performance of the model estimated on the modeling data set.

Another important aspect, often, overlooked by scientists is the series of impacts of re-calibrating
the solution already in operation (retraining and tuning the decision threshold)
for correcting the degradation to improve or, at least, preserve the existing performance.
This task is particularly risky when the credit is lent for long term payment (such as mortgages).
Furthermore, the score generated by such a model may be in use within the company
for several decision making processes such as, for instance,
the marketing/sales department trading off market expansion with risk increase or
as input to other decision systems such as debt collection scoring models.

This competition focuses on the credit scoring model's robustness against performance degradation
caused by market gradual changes along few years of business operation.

Participants will download a labeled data set from one year period for modeling,
will submit scores to the leaderboard dataset from one year later,
and the competition results will be assessed on scores submitted
for a prediction dataset starting from three years later.
These data sets come from the private label credit card operation of a major Brazilian retail chain,
along stable inflation condition (2003-2008).

The official performance metrics will be the area under the ROC curve and a Java routine for calculating it is available for download.



Feature Description
===================

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Variable Name
     - Description
     - Type
   * - id_shop
     - Shop code where the application has been made
     - integer
   * - sex
     - M=Male, F=Female
     - string
   * - marital_status
     - S=Single, C=Married, D=Divorced, V=Widow, O=Other
     - string
   * - age
     - Applicant's age
     - integer
   * - n_dependants
     - Quantity of applicant's dependants
     - integer
   * - education
     - Applicant's education level
     - string
   * - flag_residential_phone
     - Y=Yes, N=No; If the applicant possesses a residential phone
     - Y/N
   * - area_code_residential_phone
     - Modified residential phone area code
     - integer
   * - payment_day
     - Fixed month day selected for the eventual monthly payment
     - integer
   * - shop_rank
     - Company's rating for the shop in commercial terms
     - integer
   * - residence_type
     - P=Owned, A=Rented, C=Parents' House, O=Other
     - string
   * - months_in_residence
     - Time in the current residence in months
     - integer
   * - flag_mothers_name
     - Y=Yes, N=No; If the applicant had filled the father's name in the form
     - Y/N
   * - flag_fathers_name
     - Y=Yes, N=No; If the applicant had filled the mother's name in the form
     - Y/N
   * - FLAG_RESIDENCE_TOWN=WORKING_TOWN
     - Y=Yes, N=No; If the applicant works in the same town where lives
     - Y/N
   * - FLAG_RESIDENCE_STATE=WORKING_STATE
     - Y=Yes, N=No; If the applicant works in the same state where lives
     - Y/N
   * - months_in_the_job
     - Time in the current job in months
     - integer
   * - profession_code
     - Applicant's profession code
     - integer
   * - mate_income
     - Applicant's mate monthly net income in Brazilian currency (R\$)
     - real
   * - FLAG_RESIDENCIAL_ADDRESS=POSTAL_ADDRESS
     - Y=Yes, N=No; If the applicant receives the post in the same address where lives
     - Y/N
   * - flag_other_card
     - Y=Yes, N=No; If the applicant possesses another credit or private label card
     - Y/N
   * - n_banking_accounts
     - Quantity of applicant's banking accounts
     - integer
   * - personal_reference_1
     - First name of the personal reference #1 (in Portuguese)
     - string
   * - personal_reference_2
     - First name of the personal reference #2 (in Portuguese)
     - string
   * - flag_mobile_phone
     - Y=Yes, N=No; If the applicant possesses a mobile phone
     - Y/N
   * - flag_contact_phone
     - Y=Yes, N=No; If the applicant possesses a contact phone
     - Y/N
   * - personal_net_income
     - Applicant's personal monthly net income in Brazilian currency (R\$)
     - real
   * - cod_application_booth
     - Booth code where application was handed in
     - integer
   * - n_additional_cards
     - Quantity of additional cards asked for in the same application form
     - integer
   * - flag_card_insurance_option
     - Y=Yes, N=No; If the applicant asked for card insurance service
     - Y/N
   * - default
     - Target Variable: default = 1, no default = 0
     - integer

